README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# Audio-Mamba (AuM)
## Bidirectional State Space Model for Audio Representation Learning
ArXiv Preprint: [https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03344](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03344)
</div>

⚠️🚧 **This repository is under construction. Stay tuned!** 🚧⚠️

## News
- ``07 June 2024`` Code released! (Initial release — further setup and cleaning in progress.)
- ``06 June 2024`` Checkpoints released!
- ``05 June 2024`` ArXiv Preprint released: [https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03344](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03344)
- ``22 April 2024`` OpenReview Preprint released: [https://openreview.net/forum?id=RZu0ZlQIUI](https://openreview.net/forum?id=RZu0ZlQIUI)

## Overview
This repository contains the implementation of Audio-Mamba (AuM), a generic, self-attention-free and purely state space model designed for audio classification. It provides the necessary code for training and evaluating the model across various audio classification benchmarks. AuM is built on the works [AST](https://github.com/YuanGongND/ast) and [ViM](https://github.com/hustvl/Vim), and it utilizes Hugging Face's [Accelerate](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/en/index) library to facilitate efficient multi-GPU training.

<div align="center">
    <img src="AuM.png" alt="Pipeline" style="width: 50%;"/>
</div>

## Inference
An example notebook for inference is provided in the ``examples/inference`` directory. The notebook demonstrates a minimal example of how to load a trained model and perform inference on a sample audio file.

## Model Checkpoints
The model checkpoints are available for the following experiments:

### Base Scratch
These are the checkpoints for the base models with the variant Fo-Bi (b), trained from scratch.
| Dataset                  | #Params | Performance | Checkpoint |
|--------------------------|:---------:|:-------------:|:------------:|
| Audioset (mAP)           | 92.1M   | 32.74       | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1QgnyvGYxKd-q6twXf4i05jZA5xFIFs8j/view?usp=drive_link) |
| AS-20K (mAP)             | 92.1M   | 14.05       | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11cbL_vizFFD7i6RvErSSEi9E3gRRIQWA/view?usp=drive_link) |
| VGGSound (Acc)           | 91.9M   | 42.97       | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eAn8WEkfnB5pdon8o3PZMwFBsuuPu2L0/view?usp=drive_link) |
| VoxCeleb (Acc)           | 92.7M   | 33.12       | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Y3LboHg1RYLsuoKfOT3u4odF6opJZXlw/view?usp=drive_link) |
| Speech Commands V2 (Acc) | 91.4M   | 94.44       | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wLFjYZxvJs2YBvDLYqOxVhMJnPKfhX5Z/view?usp=drive_link) |
| Epic Sounds (Acc)        | 91.7M   | 44.92       | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vLX3LjAggNAusW6B17s9uc2OoduvnvJi/view?usp=drive_link) |


### Small ImageNet
These are the checkpoints for the small models with the variant Bi-Bi (c), initialized with ImageNet pretrained weights.
| Dataset | #Params | Performance | Checkpoint |
|---------|:---------:|:-------------:|:------------:|
| Audioset (mAP) | 25.5M | 39.74 |           [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1z-JdZTy52gW7RzhiTQozn6Ly2W4DOs9b/view?usp=drive_link) |
| AS-20K (mAP) | 25.5M | 29.17 |             [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XDlZEHe0xQXnOLFh3CJVaS5cmZW_7C-t/view?usp=drive_link) |
| VGGSound (Acc) | 25.5M | 49.61 |           [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11mEtjfHjkGGFjxVHvXIAX60KrBgWwWhQ/view?usp=drive_link) |
| VoxCeleb (Acc) | 25.8M | 41.78 |           [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NoherLBbOP5eE1iMQ8joas1k0lYwAmd8/view?usp=drive_link) |
| Speech Commands V2 (Acc) | 25.2M | 97.61 | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jhUKxzUo2TMHrd1a2vojjv1x9De_HyFe/view?usp=drive_link) |
| Epic Sounds (Acc) | 25.4M | 52.69 |        [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1my_kS9COIHGsx4axx8bapN7RBDvp06cK/view?usp=drive_link) |

### Base AudioSet
These are the checkpoints for the base models with the variant Fo-Bi (b), initialized with AudioSet pretrained weights.

| Dataset | #Params | Performance | Checkpoint |
|---------|:---------:|:-------------:|:------------:|
| VGGSound (Acc) | 91.9M | 46.78 |           [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1spsJXncpEXHKmIvDcB7ddkcgrzARpEeK/view?usp=drive_link) |
| VoxCeleb (Acc) | 92.7M | 41.82 |           [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dqWSIKTvA0wqKy-XTXYn-MUourMtHGrQ/view?usp=drive_link) |
| Speech Commands V2 (Acc) | 91.4M | 94.82 | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ikkU4COOqeCNCVTn4b7LulNr9p4Efr4M/view?usp=drive_link) |
| Epic Sounds (Acc) | 91.7M | 48.31 |        [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wsRhPqtHryi3PQz1WPJYkMMOPbmOMXrV/view?usp=drive_link) |

Commit message:

Setup Guide Released + Inference Re-ran

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# Audio-Mamba (AuM)
## Bidirectional State Space Model for Audio Representation Learning
ArXiv Preprint: [https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03344](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03344)
</div>

⚠️🚧 **This repository is under construction. Stay tuned!** 🚧⚠️

## News
- ``10 June 2024`` Setup guide released!
- ``07 June 2024`` Code released! (Initial release — further setup and cleaning in progress.)
- ``06 June 2024`` Checkpoints released!
- ``05 June 2024`` ArXiv Preprint released: [https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03344](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03344)
- ``22 April 2024`` OpenReview Preprint released: [https://openreview.net/forum?id=RZu0ZlQIUI](https://openreview.net/forum?id=RZu0ZlQIUI)

## Overview
This repository contains the implementation of Audio-Mamba (AuM), a generic, self-attention-free and purely state space model designed for audio classification. It provides the necessary code for training and evaluating the model across various audio classification benchmarks. AuM is built on the works [AST](https://github.com/YuanGongND/ast) and [ViM](https://github.com/hustvl/Vim), and it utilizes Hugging Face's [Accelerate](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/en/index) library to facilitate efficient multi-GPU training.

<div align="center">
    <img src="AuM.png" alt="Pipeline" style="width: 50%;"/>
</div>

## Setting Up the Repository
Please run the following commands to set up the repository:
### Create a Conda Environment
```bash
conda create -n aum python=3.10.13
conda activate aum
```
### Setting Up CUDA and CuDNN
```bash
conda install nvidia/label/cuda-11.8.0::cuda-nvcc
conda install nvidia/label/cuda-11.8.0::cuda
conda install anaconda::cudnn
```
### Installing PyTorch and Other Dependencies
```bash
pip install torch==2.1.1 torchvision==0.16.1 torchaudio==2.1.1 --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu118
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
### Enabling Bidirectional SSM Processing
To integrate the modifications for supporting bidirectional processing, copy the `mamba_ssm` folder to the `site-packages` directory of the Python installation within the Conda environment. This folder is directly borrowed from the [ViM](https://github.com/hustvl/Vim) repository. 
```bash
cp -rf vim-mamba_ssm/mamba_ssm $CONDA_PREFIX/lib/python3.10/site-packages
```

## Inference
An example notebook for inference is provided in the ``examples/inference`` directory. The notebook demonstrates a minimal example of how to load a trained model and perform inference on a sample audio file.

## Model Checkpoints
The model checkpoints are available for the following experiments:

### Base Scratch
These are the checkpoints for the base models with the variant Fo-Bi (b), trained from scratch.
| Dataset                  | #Params | Performance | Checkpoint |
|--------------------------|:---------:|:-------------:|:------------:|
| Audioset (mAP)           | 92.1M   | 32.74       | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1QgnyvGYxKd-q6twXf4i05jZA5xFIFs8j/view?usp=drive_link) |
| AS-20K (mAP)             | 92.1M   | 14.05       | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11cbL_vizFFD7i6RvErSSEi9E3gRRIQWA/view?usp=drive_link) |
| VGGSound (Acc)           | 91.9M   | 42.97       | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eAn8WEkfnB5pdon8o3PZMwFBsuuPu2L0/view?usp=drive_link) |
| VoxCeleb (Acc)           | 92.7M   | 33.12       | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Y3LboHg1RYLsuoKfOT3u4odF6opJZXlw/view?usp=drive_link) |
| Speech Commands V2 (Acc) | 91.4M   | 94.44       | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wLFjYZxvJs2YBvDLYqOxVhMJnPKfhX5Z/view?usp=drive_link) |
| Epic Sounds (Acc)        | 91.7M   | 44.92       | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vLX3LjAggNAusW6B17s9uc2OoduvnvJi/view?usp=drive_link) |


### Small ImageNet
These are the checkpoints for the small models with the variant Bi-Bi (c), initialized with ImageNet pretrained weights.
| Dataset | #Params | Performance | Checkpoint |
|---------|:---------:|:-------------:|:------------:|
| Audioset (mAP) | 25.5M | 39.74 |           [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1z-JdZTy52gW7RzhiTQozn6Ly2W4DOs9b/view?usp=drive_link) |
| AS-20K (mAP) | 25.5M | 29.17 |             [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XDlZEHe0xQXnOLFh3CJVaS5cmZW_7C-t/view?usp=drive_link) |
| VGGSound (Acc) | 25.5M | 49.61 |           [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11mEtjfHjkGGFjxVHvXIAX60KrBgWwWhQ/view?usp=drive_link) |
| VoxCeleb (Acc) | 25.8M | 41.78 |           [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NoherLBbOP5eE1iMQ8joas1k0lYwAmd8/view?usp=drive_link) |
| Speech Commands V2 (Acc) | 25.2M | 97.61 | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jhUKxzUo2TMHrd1a2vojjv1x9De_HyFe/view?usp=drive_link) |
| Epic Sounds (Acc) | 25.4M | 52.69 |        [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1my_kS9COIHGsx4axx8bapN7RBDvp06cK/view?usp=drive_link) |

### Base AudioSet
These are the checkpoints for the base models with the variant Fo-Bi (b), initialized with AudioSet pretrained weights.

| Dataset | #Params | Performance | Checkpoint |
|---------|:---------:|:-------------:|:------------:|
| VGGSound (Acc) | 91.9M | 46.78 |           [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1spsJXncpEXHKmIvDcB7ddkcgrzARpEeK/view?usp=drive_link) |
| VoxCeleb (Acc) | 92.7M | 41.82 |           [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dqWSIKTvA0wqKy-XTXYn-MUourMtHGrQ/view?usp=drive_link) |
| Speech Commands V2 (Acc) | 91.4M | 94.82 | [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ikkU4COOqeCNCVTn4b7LulNr9p4Efr4M/view?usp=drive_link) |
| Epic Sounds (Acc) | 91.7M | 48.31 |        [Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wsRhPqtHryi3PQz1WPJYkMMOPbmOMXrV/view?usp=drive_link) |
